God is spirit and to worship God I must worship God in spirit and in truth. To worship God in spirit means to get a spiritual understanding of Gods nature and I shall now endeavor to do this. I shall not attempt to define God, because that would be to limit God, but I get what is for all practical purposes an excellent working knowledge of God. I shall do this by considering different aspects of Gods nature one by one of these. There are seven main aspects that are more important than any of the others. These are seven fundamental truths about God and all the others are built up of combinations of some of these seven. These truths never change, they were the same a billion years ago and they will be the same a billion years hence. So naturally, it behooves me, to get as clear an understanding and as strong a realization as possible of these seven main aspects. This can be done by thinking about them a good deal comparing one (2) with another and identifying them in the experiences of everyday life. This is prayer and very powerful prayer too. The quickest way to solve a particular problem is to meditate on whichever aspect is the most appropriate in that particular case. Thinking of any aspect of God will solve a problem, but if I select the right aspect, I will get my result more quickly and more easily. The first main aspect is life. God is life. God is not just living nor does God give life, but God is life. God is my life. Life is existence or being. I realize the aspect of God as life for healing sickness, for the getting older belief and for any kind of depression or discouragement. If a I seem to lack ambition, I treat myself for life, by realizing the presence of divine life in me. Of course I can heal animals and plants too. Animals usually respond quickly to this treatment and plants very quickly indeed, but I should not try to keep an old animal alive by treatment after it has reached the normal span for its species. Joy is one of the highest expressions of God is life. Actually, it is a mixture of life and love. The Bible says that the sons of God shout for joy and it means that one is radiantly happy, because he is expressing the life of God in him at a high level or potential. The second main aspect of God is truth. God is truth. God is not truthful, but (3) truth itself and does not change. There are many things which are relatively true at certain times and places only, but God is absolute truth at all times and in all circumstances. To know the truth about any condition heals it. The inner spirit says, know the truth and the truth shall make you free. Truth is the great healer. I should also realize God as truth when I want information on any subject or if I suspect that I have to deal with deceit or falsehood. If I have reason to believe that someone is trying to deceive me, I think of God as truth and I claim that divine truth dwells in the person concerned and is expressed through him. If I realize this clearly enough, he or she will then speak the truth when I have to transact any important business such as signing a lease or a contract. I spend a few minutes realizing divine truth and if there is anything you should know it will come out. Realizing God as truth will save me hours of work and research in any field. I will be led to the right book or the right place or the right person without loss of time or the necessary information will come to me in some other way. The third main aspect of God is love. God is love. God is not loving, but love itself and it would probably be true to say that of all the seven main aspects, this is the most important one for us. In practice there is no condition that enough love will not heal and where there is good will it is not difficult to develop a sufficient sense of love for the purpose of healing. The (4) best way to rid myself of fear is to realize divine love. If I love God by affirming it and meaning it more than I love my problem, my sickness, my grievance, my lack or my fear, I will be healed. If I could feel a sense of divine and personal love toward everyone, no one can hurt me. There's only one remedy for fear and that is to get some sense of divine love by thinking about it, analyzing it, claiming it and expressing it in practice. I do not talk about my prayers. I do not tell people that I am praying for such and such a thing or in such and such a way. I keep the affairs of my soul secret. When I get a demonstration, I do not run around and tell everyone about it immediately. I keep it to myself until it has had time to crystallize. When the inner spirit heals, it says, go away and tell no one. The fourth main aspect of God is intelligence. God is not merely intelligent, God is intelligence itself. When I clearly realize that this is an intelligent universe, it will make a major difference in my life. It is obvious that in an intelligent universe, there cannot be any disharmony, because all ideas must work together for the common good. It is especially important to realize that God is intelligence because it sometimes happens that when people outgrow the childish idea that God is just a magnified man, they go to the opposite extreme and think of God as merely a blind force like gravity or electricity. This means that they have lost all sense of the love and fatherhood of God and such an idea is very little better than a subtle form of atheism. (5) Indeed, this standpoint is not very far removed from the the attitude of the materialist, who is usually a great believer in what he calls the laws of nature. Although God is not a person in the usual sense of the word, he has every quality of personality, except its limitation. I think of God as a loving father or mother, always ready to heal and comfort. I remember that God knows me and loves me and cares for me. That God is and has infinite intelligence, that God is and has all power. That Gods nature is perfect divine love. I turn to God today in the same way in the same spirit as I would have done when I was 5 five or 6 years of age, but plus the larger understanding that I have since acquired. When things in my life seem to be going wrong treat myself for intelligence. As a matter of fact, I should treat myself for intelligence two or three times a week. By thinking about it and claiming it for myself, this practice will make every activity of my life more efficient. The fifth main aspect of God is Soul spelled with a capital S. I do not confuse this with soul spelled with a small s which is what modern psychology calls the psyche and is another name for my human mind which consists of my intellect and my feelings. Soul is the aspect of God by virtue of which God is able to individualize itself. The word individual means undivided, see Webster and God has the power of individualizing itself without, so to speak breaking himself into parts. So my real self, the spirit within, the spiritual man, the I am or the divine spark(6) as it is variously called is an individualization of God. I am the presence of God at the point where I am. This does not of course mean that I am an absurd little personal God. I am an individualization of the one and only God. The aspect of God as soul, is the one to realize when I am called upon to perform some task, or undertake some responsibility that seems too great for me. If I get this clear enough I'll be amazed at how well everything will go and I will have permanently entered a higher category of work. Whatever I have to do, it is good practice to remind myself that it is God doing it through me. As someone has aptly said, man is the by means of the channel through which God works. The sixth main aspect of God is spirit. God is spirit. Spirit is that which cannot be destroyed or damaged or hurt or degraded or soiled in any way. Spirit cannot deteriorate, it cannot grow old or tired, it cannot know sin or condemnation or resentment or disappointment. It is the opposite of matter. Matter is always deteriorating and wearing out. This is really a splendid thing, because it means that the world is constantly being renewed. Much of the material progress is due to this fact, for example, if automobiles did not wear out, we might still be using the primitive models of 40 or 50 years ago. We should never try to hold on mentally to material objects, but be ever ready to renew and improve upon them. All Beauty, all good, all (7) joy are the presence of God apprehended through the veil of matter. The time to realize the aspect of God as spirit is when something seems to be damaged or soiled or in decay. If I can realize the presence of spirit where the trouble seems to be, the evil condition will begin to improve and if my realization is sufficiently clear, the condition will be completely healed. When the inner spirit saw the man with a withered hand, he realized that in truth that hand was spiritual and the hand was healed. When I realize that any given thing is not in reality matter, but a spiritual idea seen in a limited way, that thing changes for the better. It matters not whether it be a living thing, like a part of your body an animal, or a plant or whether it is what we call an inanimate object, the law is the same. The so-called inanimate objects are really spiritual ideas. A table, my watch, my shoes, my house, seen in the limited clouded way that I call matter. An animal is a wonderful grouping of God's ideas in which intelligence is a principled component, but it is not an individualization such as man is. I do not theorize too much about this subject, but I try a few practical experiments. When something is giving trouble, I affirm and try to realize that in reality it is a spiritual idea and watch what happens. If an automobile or any other kind of mechanism is giving trouble, I try treating it. I know that this will sound fantastic to me when unacquainted with spiritual law and so I say, I do not be obstinate, but I try it.(8) The seventh main aspect of God is principle and this is probably the one that is least understood. I do not usually think of God as principle but such God is. The simplest example of an ordinary everyday principle is water seeks its own level. This is a principle. It is not a particular drop of water, nor the course taken by a particular drop of water in a particular locality. It is a general principle that is true of all water everywhere on earth. It is not a particular thing or a particular action, it is a principle. This principle and every other principle was true a billion years ago and it will be true a billion years hence. Principle never changes, God is the principle of perfect harmony and God does not change, so perfect harmony is the nature of his creation. Prayer is answered because God is principle and when I pray rightly, I bring myself into harmony with the law of being. Scientific prayer does not try to change the law, it does not try to bring about exceptions in my favor. It does not ask God to change the laws of nature for my temporary convenience, but it tunes me in, so to speak, with divine principle and then I find things coming right because in that particular situation there is perfect harmony and right action that I have not seen at the moment so it is always a question of tuning in to God through prayer. A simple but powerful treatment is to remind myself, God is principle, the principle of perfect harmony and therefore perfect harmony is the law of being in this case. This aspect of God, namely principle, may be used at (9) any time, but it is especially helpful when I am feeling discouraged about my prayers and in cases where there seems to be a great deal of ill feeling or prejudice involved. In other cases where there seems to be any sense of vindictiveness or spite. Such things will melt away under the realization that divine principle is the only power that exists and that there simply is no false personality to think evil of that kind. These are the seven main aspects of God and I cannot really draw a hard and fast line between them. In practice it is often better to handle a particular problem by realizing two or more of them. There are many attributes of God such as wisdom, beauty, joy and so forth, but they are compounds made up of two or more of the seven main aspects. There are two synonyms for the word god, mind and cause. Each means exactly the same as the word god itself. God is the religious name for the creator of all things. Mind is the metaphysical name and cause is the natural science name for God. Anything that has any real existence is an idea in the one mind and this is the metaphysical interpretation of the universe from the natural science point of view. We may say that all creation is the result or effect of one cause, God, and that there are no secondary causes. A cause cannot be known directly, it can be known only by its effect and so the universe is the manifestation or effect of cause or God and because God is good it must be good too.
